# Testing your changes

## Writing tests with pytest

We use [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/) for automated tests. Look to its documentation for examples and guidelines.
The tests in this repository can also serve as a starting point.

All tests should be under the `tests/` directory under a correct subfolder for the module, e.g. `raster_processing/`. Put test of one module into one file, for example, `clip_test.py` to test clipping functions.

running tests is as simple as executing
```console
pytest
```

or if you are not inside Poetry shell
```console
poetry run pytest
```
in the container's command line.

> All functionality that can reasonably be tested should have tests!

### Adding data for testing purposes

Writing meaningful tests requires sensible input data. All data used for testing functionalities of the eis_toolkit
should be stored under `tests/data/`. Here you have two subdirectories for storing data:
- `tests/data/remote/` to host data that should be pushed to remote
> Do **not** add anything here unless you specifically need it on the remote

> File sizes matter here - favour small files
- `tests/data/local/` to host data that should be ignored by git (i.e. not pushed to the remote). Good for closed data or large files. Use this by default for storing any data.

The `tests/data/local/` directory is split to two subdirectories as well:
- `tests/data/local/data/` to host the input data for testing
> If you have access to EIS-specific testing data, extract it here!
- `tests/data/local/results/` to host all files generated by tests

Here's an example of what the file structure looks like:
```
tests/data
├── local
│   ├── data
│   │   ├── <a copy of the EIS testing data folder>
│   │   └── <any other data for testing>
│   └── results
│       └── <files generated by testing>
└── remote
    └── <data on remote>
```

## Experimenting with jupyterlab

Jupyterlab could also come in handy if you want to experiment. See more instructions [here](./using_jupyterlab.md).
